---
title: "Video and Media Analytics"
sidebar_position: 5
sidebar_label: "Video and Media Analytics"
---

While 91% of businesses use video as a marketing tool, few businesses deeply understand how their users interact with this content and what effect this has on business metrics. Collecting vital engagement data plays a significant role in understanding your audience, optimizing your content, and measuring the impact of your video and media marketing efforts.

Our Video and Media Analytics visualization helps you visualize insights on your video, audio and streaming content, based on data generated by our media plugins and [Media Player DBT package](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-models/dbt-media-player-data-model/index.md). It comes with the following dashboards:

1. **Overview**: get a high-level view across all your media and video content performance including "total watch time", "plays over time", and "top-performing content".
2. **Content**: dive deeper into individual media items through an impression to plays funnel, audience retention chart and views over time graph.
3. **In-Media Ads**: improve advertising performance with key metrics like click-through-rate and see what content returned the most ad views and clicks. Know how far viewers reach through your ads with the Ad Audience Retention chart, to understand where in the ad viewers may be skipping to improve ad creative performance.

### Requirements

- Running the [Snowplow Media dbt Package](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-models/dbt-media-player-data-model/index.md)
- Access to the derived tables granted to the role used when setting up the visualization
- Media events tracked using the media APIs for the [JavaScript (Media plugins)](/docs/sources/trackers/javascript-trackers/web-tracker/tracking-events/media/index.md) or [mobile trackers](/docs/sources/trackers/mobile-trackers/tracking-events/media-tracking/index.md). Note that there are multiple JavaScript tracker media plugins available. Implementation of a v2 plugin is required for this visualization to work as intended.

## Usage

The following steps will guide you through using the visualization.

### Configure

The **Settings** page lets you choose the schema and tables in your data warehouse.
These refer to the output of the Media dbt package.

First, choose the warehouse schema where your dbt Media package produced the derived tables (e.g., `dbt_media_derived`).
The visualization will suggest the most likely tables.
The following derived tables will need to be configured: `base` and `ad views`.

Verify that these match the desired tables and click **Save Settings**.
If the tables have the required columns, you can navigate to the dashboard pages in the sidebar and explore your data.

### Explore the dashboards

You can browse the following pages:

1. **Overview**: key metrics across all media, including number of plays, average play time, and number of unique viewers. It also shows a table with details and metrics for all media items.
2. **Content**: choose one piece of media to see metrics such as total plays and total watch time, as well as charts for plays over time by platform, an engagement funnel, and retention across the media playtime.
3. **In-Media Ads**: ads engagement, including impressions over time, clicks, and click-through rate.

### Choose the date range and filters

At the top of each page, there is an option to choose the date range. The **Content** and **In-Media Ads** pages also have filters for individual items of media. These options let you narrow down the data shown in the dashboard to what you are interested in.
