---
title: "Tracking specific client-side properties"
date: "2022-08-30"
sidebar_position: 30
---

# Tracking specific client-side properties

An event describes a single, transient activity. The context in which that event occurs - the relatively persistent environment - is also incredibly valuable data. The tracker provides an additional "primitive" method to track a small subset of contextual data, using the `Subject` class.

The fields tracked using `Subject` are relevant in client-side tracking. Some are set automatically in all events during enrichment, even when no `Subject` is added. These properties are marked with `*` below, and discussed below. Timezone, marked with `**`, is only set when a `Subject` is tracked with the event.

Add these fields to an event using `Subject`:

| Property         | Field in raw event | Column(s) in enriched event         |
|------------------|--------------------|-------------------------------------|
| userId           | uid                | user_id                             |
| ipAddress*       | ip                 | user_ipaddress                      |
| timezone**       | tz                 | os_timezone                         |
| language         | lang               | br_lang                             |
| useragent*       | ua                 | useragent                           |
| viewport         | vp                 | br_viewheight, br_viewwidth         |
| screenResolution | res                | dvce_screenheight, dvce_screenwidth |
| colorDepth       | cd                 | br_colordepth                       |
| networkUserId*   | tnuid              | network_userid                      |
| domainUserId     | duid               | domain_userid                       |
| domainSessionId  | sid                | domain_sessionid                    |

Note: `domainUserId` and `domainSessionId` are typical fields for web trackers. They shouldn't be used in a mobile tracker but they are available in case they are needed.
<!-- (TODO: Decide if we want to remove them from the tracker). -->

As always, be aware of privacy when tracking [personal identifiable information](https://snowplowanalytics.com/blog/2020/09/06/user-identification-and-privacy/) such as email addresses or IP addresses.
The tracker provides anonymous tracking functionality to mask certain user identifiers. Refer to the [section on anonymous tracking to learn more](../anonymous-tracking/index.md).

## Overriding autogenerated event properties

All enriched Snowplow events contain values for `user_ipaddress`, `useragent`, and `network_userid`. 

The `user_ipaddress` is automatically added to all enriched events (unless [anonymous tracking with server anonymisation](../anonymous-tracking/index.md) is enabled). To manually override this, use a `Subject` and set an `ipAddress` string; use an empty string to prevent IP address tracking. Alternatively, use the [IP anonymization enrichment](https://docs.snowplowanalytics.com/docs/enriching-your-data/available-enrichments/ip-anonymization-enrichment/).

The `useragent` is also automatically added but it can be overriden on configuration. Snowplow pipelines provide multiple useragent-parsing [enrichments](https://docs.snowplowanalytics.com/docs/enriching-your-data/available-enrichments/). To manually override the detected useragent, use a `Subject` and set a `useragent` string.

The `network_userid` is the cookie value for the event collector's third-party cookie. The cookie is named `sp` (or `micro` for Snowplow Micro pipelines). To override the collector cookie’s value with your own generated ID, use a `Subject` object and set `networkUserId`.

The `network_userid` is stored in the tracker and it's kept the same until the app is deleted or the collector endpoint is changed or the cookie is expired. It is not assigned to events if anonymous tracking with server anonymisation is enabled.

A further property, `timezone`, is generated automatically during Subject initialization, based on `Calendar.getInstance().getTimeZone()`. Therefore, this will be added to all events with a `Subject` attached. The default will be overriden if `timezone` is provided explicitly. 

## Adding `Subject` properties to events

The `Subject` properties can be set globally in the tracker through the `SubjectConfiguration`.

A simple `SubjectConfiguration` initialisation looks like this:

```swift
let subjectConfig = SubjectConfiguration()
    .userId("username")
```

See the API docs for the full [list of options](https://docs.snowplow.io/snowplow-android-tracker/classcom_1_1snowplowanalytics_1_1snowplow_1_1configuration_1_1_subject_configuration.html).

Subject properties can be updated or added to after initialization, using setter methods. See the [API docs](https://docs.snowplow.io/snowplow-android-tracker/classcom_1_1snowplowanalytics_1_1snowplow_1_1internal_1_1tracker_1_1_subject.html) for full details.
