---
title: "Signals concepts"
sidebar_position: 10
sidebar_label: "Concepts"
---

Signals introduces a new set of data governance concepts to Snowplow. As with schemas for Snowplow event data, Signals components are strictly defined, structured, and versioned.

Signals has three main configurable components:
* **Attribute groups**, for defining and calculating attributes
* **Services**, for consuming calculated attributes in your applications
* **Interventions**, for consuming calculated attributes and triggering actions in your applications

**Attribute groups** are where you define the behavioral data you want to calculate. Each attribute group contains multiple **attributes** - the specific facts about user behavior you want to measure - along with the configuration that defines how to calculate them, and from what data. Attributes can only be defined within attribute groups; they are effectively properties of the attribute group.

To use attributes to trigger actions such as in-app messages, discounts, or personalized journeys, use services or interventions.

**Services** provide a stable interface layer between your calculated attributes and your applications. Each service can contain multiple attribute groups, pinned to specific versions. You'd build the logic within your application for how to use the retrieved attributes. **Interventions** are a separate abstraction for defining when to trigger actions in your application.

## Attribute groups

Attribute groups are where you define the data you want to calculate. Each attribute group is a versioned collection that specifies:
* The **attributes** to calculate - the specific behavioral facts about users
* The **data source** - whether to calculate from the real-time stream, or in batch from the warehouse
* The **attribute key** that provides the analytical context
* Other metadata such as description or owner


### Types of attribute

Attributes describe what kind of calculation to perform, and what event data to evaluate. They can only exist within attribute groups.

Attributes can be categorized into four main types, depending on the type of user behavior you want to understand:

| Type          | Description                                            | Example                              |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------ |
| Time windowed | Actions that happened within the last X period of time | `products_added_to_cart_last_10_min` |
| Lifetime      | Calculated over all the available data                 | `total_product_price_clv`            |
| First touch   | The first event or property that happened              | `first_mkt_source`                   |
| Last touch    | The most recent event or property that happened        | `last_device_class`                  |

Signals includes a range of different aggregations for calculating attributes, including `mean`, `counter`, or `unique_list`. See the full list in the [attribute configuration](/docs/signals/configuration/attribute-groups/attributes/index.md) page.

### Attribute keys

An attribute key is an identifier that provides the analytical context for all attribute calculations within a group. The identifier can be any field of a Snowplow event, such as `domain_userid`.

To demonstrate the necessity of attribute keys, consider the attribute `num_views_in_last_10_min` defined within different attribute groups. This table lists some possible meanings of the attribute, based on the attribute key configured for its attribute group:

| Attribute                  | Attribute key      | Description                                                                         |
| -------------------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `num_views_in_last_10_min` | User               | How many pages a user has viewed within the last 10 minutes                         |
| `num_views_in_last_10_min` | Page               | How many page views a page has received within the last 10 minutes                  |
| `num_views_in_last_10_min` | Product            | How many times a product has been viewed within the last 10 minutes                 |
| `num_views_in_last_10_min` | App                | How many page views occurred within an app in the last 10 minutes                   |
| `num_views_in_last_10_min` | Device             | How many page views came from a specific device in the last 10 minutes              |
| `num_views_in_last_10_min` | Marketing campaign | How many page views were generated by a campaign in the last 10 minutes             |
| `num_views_in_last_10_min` | Geographic region  | How many page views came from users in one region within the last 10 minutes        |
| `num_views_in_last_10_min` | Customer segment   | How many page views were generated by users in a segment within the last 10 minutes |

Each of these is likely to have a different calculated value.

You can define your own attribute keys, or use the built-in ones. Signals comes with predefined attribute keys for user, device, and session. Their identifiers are from the out-of-the-box atomic [user-related fields](/docs/fundamentals/canonical-event/index.md#user-related-fields) in all Snowplow events.

### How are attributes updated?

Calculated attribute values are stored in the Profiles Store.

Signals will calculate or update attribute values based on the configuration you provide. There are three ways to update attribute values:
* Based on events in real time (stream source only)
* Synced from data in warehouse (batch source only)
* Interventions can be configured to update attributes

Real-time attribute calculation uses the Snowplow event stream, and therefore ingests only Snowplow events. For historical warehouse attributes, you can import values from any table — whether created by Signals or not, even whether derived from Snowplow data or not. For example, you may want to include transactional data in your Signals use case.

To learn more about stream and batch sources, see the [stream vs batch](/docs/signals/stream-vs-batch/index.md) page.

### Example attribute group configuration

Here's an example configuration for an attribute group based on a user attribute key, with a stream (default) source:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    subgraph AttributeGroup[AttributeGroup: `user_attributes_realtime`]
        AG_User[user_attribute_key: `user_id`]
        AG_SA1[`number_of_pageviews`]
        AG_SA2[`last_product_viewed`]
    end
```

When this attribute group configuration is applied to Signals, the attributes will be calculated and stored in the Profiles Store. On retrieval, this attribute group might look something like this as a table:

| `user_id`            | `number_of_pageviews` | `last_product_viewed` |
| -------------------- | --------------------- | --------------------- |
| `abc123@example.com` | 5                     | `"Red Shoes"`         |
| `def456@example.com` | 10                    | `"Blue Hat"`          |

## Services

Services are where you define how to use the calculated attributes in your applications.

Rather than connecting applications directly to attribute groups, services allow you to consume specific attribute group versions. This provides a consistent set of consumable attributes. We strongly recommend using services in production applications.

By using services you can:
* Iterate on attribute definitions without worrying about breaking downstream processes
* Migrate to new attribute group versions by updating the service definition, without having to update the application code

Here's a service that combines the stream attribute group from before with an additional batch attribute group:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    subgraph StreamAttributeGroup[AttributeGroup: `user_attributes_realtime`]
        SV_User[User: `user_id`]
        SV_SAG1[`number_of_pageviews`]
        SV_SAG2[`last_product_viewed`]
    end

    subgraph BatchAttributeGroup[AttributeGroup: `user_attributes_warehouse`]
        BV_User[User: `user_id`]
        BV_BAG1[`previous_purchases`]
        BV_BAG2[`previous_returns`]
    end

    StreamAttributeGroup --> Service
    BatchAttributeGroup --> Service

    subgraph Service[Service]
        S_StreamAttributeGroup[`user_attributes_realtime`]
        S_BatchAttributeGroup[`user_attributes_warehouse`]
    end
```

In this example, both attribute groups have the same attribute key, and all attributes from both attribute groups are included in the service.

This service could be imagined like this as a table:

| `user_id`            | `number_of_pageviews` | `last_product_viewed` | `previous_purchases`       | `previous_returns` |
| -------------------- | --------------------- | --------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `abc123@example.com` | 5                     | `"Red Shoes"`         | `[Blue Shoes", "Red Hat"]` | `["Red Hat"]`      |
| `def456@example.com` | 10                    | `"Yellow Hat"`        | `[]`                       | `[]`               |

## Interventions

Interventions are calculated on top of changes in attribute values, or fired by your own applications.

This allows you to influence user behavior without requiring application updates, since you can control when the intervention should fire through Signals.

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    user -->|uses| application
    application -->|sends| event
    event -->|updates| attribute
    attribute -->|triggers| intervention
    intervention -->|influences| user
```

Like attributes, interventions target specific attribute key instances.

Interventions can be triggered automatically [based on attribute changes](/docs/signals/configuration/interventions/index.md), or manually [using the Signals API](/docs/signals/interventions/index.md#custom-intervention-via-the-api).
Subscribe [within your application](/docs/signals/interventions/index.md#retrieving-interventions-with-the-signals-sdk) for real-time updates to interventions for attribute keys of interest, or [user devices can subscribe](/docs/signals/interventions/index.md#retrieving-interventions-on-the-web-with-the-browser-tracker-plugin) to interventions that apply to their own attribute keys while they use your application.

For example, you could subscribe to interventions for a specific `domain_userid`, the current `app_id`, the current `page`, and the current `product`.
When new interventions are published for any of those, they are delivered and the contents include any relevant attribute values, that can be used by your application to react.
This enables both individual-level and broadcast-level real-time messaging: for example, offering a specific user a personalized message, while also notifying all users on a specific product page that limited stock is selling fast.
