---
title: "Unified"
sidebar_position: 100
hide_title: true
---

```mdx-code-block
import Badges from '@site/src/components/Badges';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';

```
<Badges badgeType="dbt-package Release" pkg="unified"></Badges>

# Snowplow Unified Package

**The package source code can be found in the [snowplow/dbt-snowplow-unified repo](https://github.com/snowplow/dbt-snowplow-unified), and the docs for the [model design here](https://snowplow.github.io/dbt-snowplow-unified/#!/overview/snowplow_unified).**

The package contains a fully incremental model that transforms raw web and mobile event data generated by the [Snowplow JavaScript tracker](/docs/collecting-data/collecting-from-own-applications/javascript-trackers/index.md) and the [Snowplow iOS](docs/collecting-data/collecting-from-own-applications/mobile-trackers/previous-versions/objective-c-tracker/index.md) or [android trackers](/docs/collecting-data/collecting-from-own-applications/mobile-trackers/previous-versions/android-tracker/index.md) into a series of derived tables of varying levels of aggregation.

The Snowplow unified data model aggregates Snowplow's out of the box page view, screen view, and page ping events to create a set of derived tables - views, sessions and users - that contain many useful dimensions as well as calculated measures such as time engaged and scroll depth.

<p align="center">
<ThemedImage
alt='Unified Package data flow'
sources={{
light: require('./images/unified-process-light.drawio.png').default,
dark: require('./images/unified-process-dark.drawio.png').default
}}
/>
</p>

## Overview

This model consists of a series of modules, each producing a table which serves as the input to the next module. The 'standard' modules are:

- Base: Performs the incremental logic, outputting the table `snowplow_unified_base_events_this_run` which contains a de-duped data set of all events required for the current run of the model. From this table it also generates the `snowplow_unified_events_this_run` table, which coalesces multiple fields to combine web and mobile fields coming from different contexts / sdes.
- Views: Aggregates event level data to page view / screen view level, `view_id`, outputting the table `snowplow_unified_views`.
- Sessions: Aggregates event level data to a session level, `session_identifier`, outputting the table `snowplow_unified_sessions`. Includes other events but requires at least one `page_view`, `screen_view` or `page_ping` event in the session.
- Users: Aggregates session level data to a users level, `user_identifier`, outputting the table `snowplow_unified_users`.
- User Mapping: Provides a mapping between user identifiers, `user_identifier` and `user_id`, outputting the table `snowplow_unified_user_mapping`. This can be used for session stitching.


## Overridable Macros

:::tip

For information about overriding our macros, see [here](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-operation/macros-and-keys/index.md#overriding-macros)

:::

- `unify_fields_query()`[source](https://github.com/snowplow/dbt-snowplow-unified/blob/main/macros/unify_fields_query.sql): used to group together fields that come from multiple contexts or sdes depending on whether the plarform is mobile or web.
- `filter_bots(table_alias)`[source](https://github.com/snowplow/dbt-snowplow-unified/blob/main/macros/filter_bots.sql): used to define the filter to remove bot events from events processed by the package. Of the form `and <condition>`. Used throughout the package to filter out bots from all models.
- `channel_group_query()`[source](https://github.com/snowplow/dbt-snowplow-unified/blob/main/macros/channel_group_query.sql): defines the channel a user arrived at using various fields, populates the `default_channel_group` field. Must be a valid sql `select` object e.g. a complete `case when` statement. Used in `sessions_this_run` table.
- `engaged_session()`[source](https://github.com/snowplow/dbt-snowplow-unified/blob/main/macros/engaged_session.sql): defines if a session was engaged or not, populates the `is_engaged` field. Must return `true` or `false` and be a valid sql `select` object e.g. a complete `case when` statement. Used in `sessions_this_run` table.
- `content_group_query()`[source](https://github.com/snowplow/dbt-snowplow-unified/blob/main/macros/channel_group_query.sql): defines the content groups by classifying the page urls for page views. Must be a valid sql `select` object e.g. a complete `case when` statement. Used in `views_this_run` table.

## Engaged vs. Absolute Time
At a view- and session-level we provide two measures of time; **absolute**, how long a user had the page open, and **engaged**, how much of that time the user was on the page. Engaged time is often a large predictor of a customer conversion, such as a purchase or a sign-up, whatever that may be in your domain.

Calculating absolute time is simple, it's the difference between the `derived_tstamp` of the first and last (page view or page ping) events within that page view/session.

The calculation for engaged time is more complicated, it is derived based on page pings which means if the user isn't active on your content, the engaged time does not increase. Let's consider a single page view example of reading an article; partway through the reader may see something they don't understand, so they open a new tab and look this up. They might stumble upon a Wikipedia page on it, they go down a rabbit hole and 10 minutes later they make it back to your site to finish the article. In this case there will be a gap for those 10 minutes in the page pings in the events data.

To adjust for these gaps we calculate engaged time as the time to trigger each ping (your heartbeat) times the number of pings (ignoring the first one), and add to that the time delay to the first ping (your minimum visit length). The formula is:

$$
engaged\_time=t_{heartbeat}\times (n_{distinct\_pings} -1) + t_{min\_visit\_length}
$$

and the below shows an example visually for a single page view.

<p align="center">
<ThemedImage
alt='Page views and pings showing gaps to highlight the difference between absolute and engaged time'
sources={{
light: require('./images/engaged_time_light.drawio.png').default,
dark: require('./images/engaged_time_dark.drawio.png').default
}}
/>
</p>

At a session level, this calculation is slightly more involved, as it needs to happen per page view and account for [stray page pings](#stray-page-pings), but the underlying idea is the same.


## Stray Page Pings
Stray Page Pings are pings within a session that do not have a corresponding `page_view` event within **the same session**. The most common cause of these is someone returning to a tab after their session has timed out but not refreshing the page. The `page_view` event exists in some other session, but there is no guarantee that both these sessions will be processed in the same run, which could lead to different results. Depending on your site content and user behavior the prevalence of sessions with stray page pings could vary greatly. For example with long-form content we have seen around 10% of all sessions contain only stray page pings (i.e. no `page_view` events).

We take different approaches to adjust for these stray pings at the page view and sessions levels, which can lead to differences between the two tables, but each is as accurate as we can currently make it.

### Sessions
As all our processing ensures full sessions are reprocessed, our sessions level table includes all stray page ping events, as well as all other view and ping events. We adjust the start time down based on your minimum visit length if the session starts with a page ping, and we include sessions that contain only (stray) pings. We also count page views based on the number of unique `page_view_ids` you have (from the `web_page` context) rather than using absolute `page_view` events to include these stray pings, and account for stray pings in the engaged time. Overall this is a more accurate view of a session and treats the stray pings as if they had a corresponding `page_view` event in the same session, even when they did not.

The result of this is you may see misalignment between sessions and if you tried to recalculate them based directly off the page views table; this is because we discard stray pings during page view processing as discussed below, so the values (`views`, `engaged_time_in_s`, and `absolute_time_in_s`) in the sessions table may be higher, but are more accurate at a session level.

<p align="center">
<ThemedImage
alt='Stray page ping sessionisation'
sources={{
light: require('./images/stray_sessions_light.drawio.png').default,
dark: require('./images/stray_sessions_dark.drawio.png').default
}}
/>
</p>


### Page Views
For page views, because we cannot guarantee the sessions with the `page_view` event and all subsequent `page_ping` events are processed within the same run, we choose to discard all stray page pings. Without doing this it could be possible that you would get different results from different run configurations.

<div style ={{overflow:'hidden'}}>
<div style={{float: 'left', width: '45%'}}>
<p align="center"><strong>Without enforcing within-session view</strong></p>
<ThemedImage
alt='Stray page ping page views'
sources={{
light: require('./images/stray_views_old-light.drawio.png').default,
dark: require('./images/stray_views_old-dark.drawio.png').default
}}
/>

</div>
<div style={{float: 'right', width: '45%'}}>
<p align="center"><strong>With enforcing within-session view</strong></p>
<ThemedImage
alt='Stray page ping page views'
sources={{
light: require('./images/stray_views_new-light.drawio.png').default,
dark: require('./images/stray_views_new-dark.drawio.png').default
}}
/>
</div>
</div>

<br></br>

:::info

Currently we do not process these discarded stray page pings in any way, meaning that engaged time and scroll depth in these cases may be under representative of the true value. Due to session level reprocessing this remains a complicated issue to resolve, but please [let us know](https://github.com/snowplow/dbt-snowplow-unified/issues) if you would like to help solve this!

:::
