```mdx-code-block
import ReactMarkdown from 'react-markdown';
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
```

# Consent Tracking Custom Module

<ReactMarkdown children={`This custom module is built as an extension of the dbt-snowplow-${props.packageName} package.`}/>

It transforms raw `consent_preferences` and `cmp_visible` event data into derived tables for easier querying. These events are generated by the **Enhanced Consent plugin** of the [JavaScript tracker](/docs/collecting-data/collecting-from-own-applications/javascript-trackers/index.md).

:::info Important
For the incremental logic to work within the module you **must** use at least `RDB Loader v4.0.0`, as the custom module relies on the additional `load_tstamp` field for dbt native incrementalisation.

Whenever a new consent version is added to be tracked, the model expects an `allow_all` event in order to attribute the events to the full list of latest consent scopes. It is advisable to send a test event of that kind straight after deployment so that the model can process the data accurately.
:::

## Overview

This custom module consists of a series of dbt models which produce the following aggregated models from the raw consent tracking events:

<ReactMarkdown children={`
- \`snowplow_${props.packageName}_consent_log\`: Snowplow incremental table showing the audit trail of consent and Consent Management Platform (cmp) events.
- \`snowplow_${props.packageName}_consent_users\`: Incremental table of user consent tracking stats.
- \`snowplow_${props.packageName}_consent_totals\`: Summary of the latest consent status, per consent version.
- \`snowplow_${props.packageName}_cconsent_scope_status\`: Aggregate of current number of users consented to each consent scope.
- \`snowplow_${props.packageName}_cmp_stats\`: Used for modeling cmp_visible events and related metrics.
- \`snowplow_${props.packageName}_consent_versions\`: Incremental table used to keep track of each consent version and its validity.
`}/>

## Operation

<ReactMarkdown children={`It is assumed that the Snowplow ${props.packageName} package is already installed and configured as per the [Quick Start](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-quickstart/index.md) instructions.`}/>

### Enable the module

You can enable the custom module through the `snowplow__enable_consent` variable most conveniently set in your dbt_project.yml file:

<CodeBlock language='yaml' title="dbt_project.yml">{`
vars:
  snowplow_${props.packageName}:
    snowplow__enable_cwv: true
    `}
</CodeBlock>

###  Run the module
<ReactMarkdown children={`
If you have previously run the model without this optional module enabled, you can simply enable the module and run \`dbt run --selector snowplow_${props.packageName}\` as many times as needed for this module to catch up with your other data. If you only wish to process this from a specific date, be sure to change your \`snowplow__start_date\`, or refer to the [Custom module](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-custom-models/index.md) section for a detailed guide on how to achieve this the most efficient way.`}/>

<ReactMarkdown children={`
If you haven't run the web package before, then you can run it using \`dbt run --selector snowplow_${props.packageName}\` either through your CLI, within dbt Cloud, or for Enterprise customers you can use the BDP console. In this situation, all models will start in-sync as no events have been processed.`}/>
