---
title: "Consent Module"
sidebar_position: 101
hide_title: true
---

```mdx-code-block
import Badges from '@site/src/components/Badges';
```
<Badges badgeType="dbt-package Release" pkg="web"></Badges>


# Consent Tracking Custom Module

This custom module is built as an extension of the [dbt-snowplow-web package](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-models/dbt-web-data-model/index.md), it transforms raw `consent_preferences` and `cmp_visible` event data into derived tables for easier querying. These events are generated by the **Enhanced Consent plugin** of the [JavaScript tracker](/docs/collecting-data/collecting-from-own-applications/javascript-trackers/index.md).

:::info Important
For the incremental logic to work within the module you **must** use at least `RDB Loader v4.0.0`, as the custom module relies on the additional `load_tstamp` field for dbt native incrementalisation.

Whenever a new consent version is added to be tracked, the model expects an `allow_all` event in order to attribute the events to the full list of latest consent scopes. It is advisable to send a test event of that kind straight after deployment so that the model can process the data accurately.
:::

To enable this optional module, the web package must be correctly configured. Please refer to the [snowplow-web dbt quickstart guide](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-quickstart/web/index.md) for a full breakdown of how to set it up.

## Overview

This custom module consists of a series of dbt models which produce the following aggregated models from the raw consent tracking events:

  - `snowplow_web_consent_log`: Snowplow incremental table showing the audit trail of consent and Consent Management Platform (cmp) events

  - `snowplow_web_consent_users`: Incremental table of user consent tracking stats

  - `snowplow_web_consent_totals`: Summary of the latest consent status, per consent version

  - `snowplow_web_consent_scope_status`: Aggregate of current number of users consented to each consent scope

  - `snowplow_web_cmp_stats`: Used for modeling cmp_visible events and related metrics

  - `snowplow_web_consent_versions`: Incremental table used to keep track of each consent version and its validity


## Operation

It is assumed that the dbt_snowplow_web package is already installed and configured as per the [Quick Start](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-quickstart/index.md) instructions.

### Enable the module

To enable the custom module simply copy the following code snippet to your own dbt_project.yml file:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

models:
  snowplow_web:
    optional_modules:
      consent:
        enabled: true
        +schema: "derived"
        +tags: ["snowplow_web_incremental", "derived"]
        scratch:
          +schema: "scratch"
          +tags: "scratch"
          bigquery:
            enabled: "{{ target.type == 'bigquery' | as_bool() }}"
          databricks:
            enabled: "{{ target.type in ['databricks', 'spark'] | as_bool() }}"
          default:
            enabled: "{{ target.type in ['redshift', 'postgres'] | as_bool() }}"
          snowflake:
            enabled: "{{ target.type == 'snowflake' | as_bool() }}"
```

###  Run the module
If you have previously run the web model without this optional module enabled, you can simply enable the module and run `dbt run --selector snowplow_web` as many times as needed for this module to catch up with your other data. If you only wish to process this from a specific date, be sure to change your `snowplow__start_date`, or refer to the [Custom module](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-custom-models/index.md) section for a detailed guide on how to achieve this the most efficient way.

If you haven't run the web package before, then you can run it using `dbt run --selector snowplow_web` either through your CLI, within dbt Cloud, or for Enterprise customers you can use the BDP console. In this situation, all models will start in-sync as no events have been processed.
